Hey,
guys,
In this video,
we will start the saying or first form using PHP and bootstrap on the Schimmel and all of
these wonderful things that come together toe allow us to collect data from users.
Andi leading towards storing it's for later use.
So we already started designing.
Our site we created are full of structure putting our fathers and our references.
And we kind of segmented or cord toe have that kind of Leo's who can feel so know what
we're going to do is start modifying over index speech to be,
ah,
form that collects data and we look at using the get submission for or form.
I'm just going to start modifying the contents off the page on I'm going to instead of
printing Hello world.
I'm going to see registration for a conference.
So we're creating on I t conference or districts on form where we want all of the would be
attendees to start putting in their information and declaring all you know,
I'm a DBS so this we get an idea off.
Who is that going to attend or conference on?
We can store it up for analytics later on,
so I have this.
Each one tug at the first thing on the page,
and it's always good to have on each one tug not only for readability by the user to know
where they are,
but also for search engines and love.
Each one times on pages on you get higher around kings for these kind of things.
I also want this each want out to be in the center off my pit.
So if I take a look at what happens here,
I just refresh.
No,
I have it seeing registration for I t conference.
So instead of just seeing that I'm going to or instead of having it to the left,
I'm goingto center align.
It's a bootstrap as a class on Do you can always go and look at the documentation for
yourself I've been using for us.
It has kind of become a part of me,
but always feel free to go back to the bootstrap website.
Look at the documentation.
If it is that you're not sure hotel complex something.
So I'm going toe center,
line it,
and while I'm here,
I just try and find that reference.
In the documentation our city will go under utilities and look for text.
Then the first thing that you see sticks alignments.
If it is that you want to move your text their own with it to the left,
to the center,
to the right,
or you know that different ones.
Then they give the court example,
so you can use a class text left to push it to the left tech center to push it to the
center,
etcetera,
etcetera.
So it's really simple.
Want to catch on?
You remember them quickly,
so I want to send our lines,
understand to see a text center.
Another thing that I want to point out is that even though the example may have been with a
pita,
it applies to anything that is text.
So it's a pita example.
Yes,
on were using it on an H.
One time you can be used on almost any tug that has to do with sticks.
The fact is,
it will take any content off that on the center,
align it,
are aligned it accordingly.
All right,
so I don't have to worry about the example versus the type of tug you're using and what did
it.
I just highlighted this and you shift upto push everything back to the left column.
I'm just a sick stickler for for indentation.
So next we're going to do ah form.
So to do a form,
we have Italian,
a general called form Onda.
Understand toe open and close this quickly as forms can have quite a few things,
and you don't want to forget to close your tacos.
That can lead to some annoying and irritating debugging issues.
No,
to design my form using bootstrap classes understand too quickly.
Jump over to the documentation on find.
I think that would be in components.
Find references for forms.
There we go.
So they give us some sample forms.
They say,
You know,
if you use my classes,
this is what they're foreign can look like with relative ease aren't and they tell you the
different controls that you have a Nikon style on the size ings.
They have quite a few options.
If you go through on,
you can get quite a bit off.
Inspiration for a formal layout are designed from their examples.
For today,
however,
we're going to keep it simple,
so I'm just going to go back up to the first example that was there where we have the label
,
what does he want?
And the specific control for it up to the submit button.
So I can actually just take a look at this score and see how it's done.
I'm actually just want a copy.
This scored.
Go back to my site and replace the form times that I just so cheerfully puttin on.
I'm going to replace them with all of that court on.
I'm just going to spend a few moments here on d get all of my indentation proper so that I
know where everything starts and stops.
All right,
so I have my form talk,
opening and closing here on.
Then you notice that there bunch off,
gives in between.
All right on,
then,
if you look inside off the dibs,
you have the label,
which is the word that is printed.
Seeing this is what I'm prompting for.
So this one was the from for the email address,
and then we have the input type.
Andi,
initial five.
You you have quite a few types available to you.
In this case,
that type is e mails that actually runs specific validations on the email.
Just to make sure that you're putting in an email address out of the box without any
additional cord.
Andi.
Some other attributes.
And then they give you a small where did give you a tip.
So if you just look at the court versus the example,
then you kind of see where everything is.
So we have email address on that was in the label section you have the the text box on.
Do you know that one has in ah,
placeholder.
This is enter email.
So that's on attributes Placeholder that uses that kind of greedo takes that disappears
when text actually goes in on.
Then under here you see that there's a little town here that says you never share on.
They show you the cord to get all of that.
So the fact is,
you copied it.
You may not need it.
You can remove underst reform as needs be.
No,
I just added a few comments here,
or one be coming here with the different fields that we intended toe collect from our would
be attendees aren't so wants to call it the first name last name the date of birth and will
be using a date picker will take their specialty on because and these are the specialities
that we're catering for.
Andi another's at other,
just in case.
All right,
on then.
We want the email address under contact number,
and that is what or form should be designed to collect from our users.
All right,
so,
no,
we'll start butchering or start modifying.
I'm not,
say butchering.
We'll start customizing this code so that we can accomplish our mission.
No,
I'm good.
I'm giving a template.
Be as creative as you need to be.
If you want to try something else,
that's fine.
If you run into difficulty,
always feel free to reach out to me.
I know there's certain things about this school that I'm going to retain because that is
just how bootstrap I lows us to take advantage off its design.
So,
for instance,
you notice that you always have a diff class called form group on inside this Div.
Then you have whatever else goes in tow that form group,
meaning the input type on the label for it and anything else.
So each one of these would get its own give with class form group.
So I need I already have email address.
I'm not going toe delete the email address.
But what I'm going to do is copy this form group and then went to create another one.
All right.
And then I'm going to modify this other one.
So I have email address here already.
I'm not removing email address,
but email address is not the first thing on the list.
It's like the second to last.
I still have at least four other things above it.
So I'm going to keep on putting things above the emitters until I get there.
So I'm going to change the label.
Firstly on,
Do you want to change the lead before on the i d.
Because what happens is that in html five,
they give the label for an I.
D.
Thing.
Well,
really bootstrap,
because when he quit the label,
it kind off highlights the contra widow to clicking the control itself.
So watch as I take the word password.
This highlights.
So you want that label four on the I d.
Too much to get that kind off effect.
And you don't want to repeat the ideas.
You never want to repeat the ideas off your elements.
Gerald,
Your your your website.
So I'm going to change this one to something more meaningful because I'm doing first name
Andi.
I spelled first wrongly.
So you want to make sure you get all the spilling squarely on day?
So that's the idea.
I'm going to change the label.
Four attributes toe first name.
I'm going to change the labels.
Text from the military's toe First name Andi.
I'm going to change the anything here that had to do with email and basically going to
change.
Thought relative tow it being used for a first name.
So the input type here is email.
First name is not an email.
It would be more text Onda,
I'm going to change this Emir,
Help toe say first.
I am actually I've never I don't think I need this.
This attribute is not absolutely necessary.
So I'm just going to remove that one.
I don't need that one.
All right,
I want to remove this This this small text Alright,
I don't need that so pretty much if you just want a label on the text box.
This is what is going to look like.
You have your live with form with class formed a group and then you have your label,
and then you have your input,
and I'm going to change the placeholder text to see Inter.
First name on,
really?
And truly I don't need placeholder text if I have a label.
So once again,
it's up to you on your design.
All right?
I don't I don't like seeing a placeholder when I already have the label Someone to remove
that one.
So this is what it looks like.
If I want a label on that takes box on this is for the first name.
No,
to call it the last name would be pretty much identical to understand,
To copy and paste this on change everything out to be relative toe Last name.
All right,
so no,
I'm collecting for last name.
I changed the label text.
I changed their the four attribute value and the i d off the text box so that they work
together.
Andi know I'm collecting for last name.
Next.
We want date off birth,
so date off.
Birth undergoes Quintal.
Continue along the same line on the four is going to be on understand.
To read you will be for short.
The idea here is deal be did off birth.
The label text says,
Did it off birth,
birth within a on.
Then the type can be.
Actually,
it's picker because html five actually has will beat.
Sorry.
So the data type the input type date actually gives us a date picker on.
We're going to look into if this is the best way to do it or not,
but for no,
that can work.
All right.
Next,
we need another control because we have specialty,
which is going to be more like a drop down box,
allowing us to select.
So if I use a drop down,
obviously you can only select one off their above.
Who could use a radio button on diffuse the check box.
Then it would be a loss,
a select all at least one are all off the potential values.
So that's up to you and your conference for my conference.
I believe that your specialty is only once I'm going to give you a drop down box.
All right,
so I'm just going toe copy this once again on I'm copying and pasting the Suspiria miss off
retyping things that I don't have to re type.
Right?
So this one,
the labor is spare shell T Onda.
I'm going to see a specialty,
our area off expertise.
I can always meet my labels as worthy or not,
as I want that the text that is being printed to the user I'm going to change the I d.
Well,
I'm going to change this.
Who will control?
Because a drop down box wouldn't be involved using an input,
Jack someone to just go over toe bootstrap and see what they have for me in terms off drop
boomboxes.
And there they actually have it.
They have the foreign control section where they're showing me a drop down list,
and that's what it looks like.
Once bootstrap is applied.
All right,
on the example for it is right here.
We have the form groups,
so that's basically our constant they have the label on.
Then what we have is a select tug with options in between.
So I'm just going to copy this out because we have everything else,
all right.
We have everything else in police,
understands a copy of that select section and then spend some time fixing our indentation
here on then I'm going toe leave this class.
You notice all of them Have that class form dash control.
Right.
So with all the foreign dash control,
they wouldn't look as dynamic as they do here.
They don't.
They don't have that bootstrap look and feel,
and we'll look at that later.
So I'm going to select administered a tug I'm with to change the i d.
Here till a specialty.
Right?
So that's the label knows to work with it.
And then I'm going to put in my options.
And my options once again were database admission.
So data base add mean ah,
software developer on Web administrator and other.
So just type those in quickly.
All right,
I know that is done.
So we have or drop down list.
I know we haven't been looking at it.
I don't know if you have been,
and that's good.
If you have been I haven't.
So we're this building blindly and hoping that everything snaps together as we would like
it.
And if it doesn't really just fix it as you go along.
So nowhere at the email address.
And once again because we took that example,
we already have email address I'm just into sure it upward.
Change it up a bit because it's a bit too wordy for me.
So label for email on the controls ideas,
no one to be email so that these two Noto work together.
Andi,
I'll just leave everything else here on this would actually be a nice little disclaimer.
We'll never show your email with anyone else because you ready stuff for my conference.
I'm not.
Want to use your email maliciously.
You know,
you could use this little all right on.
Oh,
so this idea and this attribute go hand in hand.
See that?
So I I didn't remove it from previous times,
but here is why bootstrap would off kind off.
Put that there are taking experiments with them.
The next thing that we want after email is the contact number on.
I'm actually just going to routine the email cord on going to reuse it for four number
because,
well,
I'm going to show you Why So for eso the label for his fall,
the forms,
the controls I d is full on,
then the labor is going to see well,
contact number.
All right.
I believe that there is.
I'm going to use text.
So there were still me.
The text box looked like it's supposed to collect a four number,
but we're not there yet,
so I'm just going to use text on going toe.
Remove the placeholder on.
I'm going to do the same for the placeholder above.
Once again,
I don't like having both the level and the placeholder.
I think they should be used interchangeably.
That's personal,
though.
On I'm going to leave this help text that I'm going to say full help instead off email help
on the CME here on then I want to leave this help text and I'll say,
Well,
never share your number with anyone else So we have to privacy disclaimers here that we're
going to minty in the privacy of your phone number and your email address are no,
that we're finished with our form because we have everything that we require.
We can the screen of the rest of the court.
So I think part of the example that we took also had this text box for password,
which we don't need,
at least not yet on this check box for an example also,
so we can remove that Onda,
We have a button which is off type submit which involves a submission attempts to the to
the browser on we have class equals VT and Bt and dashed forever,
which gives us a nice blue button on the submit form.
All right,
so you could always customize the secret changes.
Start green button by saying beating that success and see register.
It's up to you.
Personalize it as you wish,
but for no,
we're going to go ahead on a preview orbit.
So this is where we left off on little See where we are.
No on Look at that.
That is lovely art so ever each one time nicely center line.
We have our first name.
I notice when I click just the label each control kind of lights up Once again I was the
label for and the the i d at work on then That is what our form looks like.
We just built a form,
and all we did was doing the way bootstrapped it and look at the beautiful.
Oh,
come all right now I'm just going to play around a bit and show you other things that we
could do Firstly,
if I take all the form,
control class reference that make sure you what happens then our textbooks looks like this
,
which is just the standard and default.
So that is why we have in that form control class so that it takes on the bootstrap
attributes its understand to introduce that if I wanted my button to not be so small.
All right.
It's kind of lost all the way down there.
Then I have a class beating dash block on Bt and dust block meets the button stretch right
across the peach.
Alright,
Andi,
I want some space between my submit on my copyright,
so I can probably put in a few br tags,
so understand,
to put in a boat about four or five on,
Then you notice that you have that space so we can go back and fix the footer later.
But just to show you that whatever content you put in the index space between the hander
the header includes underfoot includes it will render that we are on.
Then if we look appear in our title,
we see attendance dash index,
And remember that we're sitting that value in the in this top section of the site on hitter
is just making reference to its No.
One more thing I want just to look at is our DEET control.
So we had used for date off birth the day it ate a type.
All right on.
Then,
if you just take a quick glance at it,
you actually see where it looks different from the regular textbooks on If we try to change
these values we see that were confined or restricted to only put.
Indeed,
it's related,
but there's other takes.
Can't go in there,
and that's perfect.
The danger,
however,
is that this eight control is going to get rendered differently relative to the boroughs
are being used.
So in this situation,
our chrome browser is going to give us a nice control calendar control on.
We can just let the date,
however,
in my edge,
explore when I click this,
I'm getting a different type of control,
all right?
No,
they all.
They both work,
so it's not a matter of functionality.
However,
they work differently.
Andi.
I can see where this is going to lead to user experience issues or even support issues,
because if you are used to seeing your website in cruel and somebody cause in seeing it's
not working properly an edge then That's a design issue as far as I'm concerned.
So we want consistency across over website on in all browsers Now what we need to do to
maintain consistency across all browsers with our date picker or did control used to
actually reference a deep picker and that one of the more popular and easy to use one's
would be from Jake Worry you I it's understand to gula Jake,
where you I and it will just go to the website on here.
They have a bunch of what you call widgets.
You can get a kardian controls auto,
complete all sorts of things.
So the one that we're interested in is the date picker.
So we just look at how we go about including that on.
Give us a quick example where you click and you get a date picker control,
no matter what the bro's er this is how it's going to look on.
That is what we want.
So we just click view source on,
then the show us kind off what needs to be included,
right,
So we need a style sheet on.
They actually give us some seedy and links.
So we need a style sheet and we need to script files.
I need a reference toe.
Jake,
Worry on.
Then.
We need a reference to Jake.
Were you y know what happened?
Is that when we took the example from Bootstrap in our footer one of the scripts being
referenced is J query.
So we don't need toe include the Jake or again,
what we just need to do know his reference the Jake where you I sections.
I can just copy this,
Andi Well,
back to my foot or cord and paste it another space it as the last thing.
So once again,
order mutters,
we need to make sure that we don't place it above the original geek were friends.
Because there are things in this that rely on court from this.
So this has to be rendered first.
Before this,
we can start to work next,
we can take this script example.
This scored block where what it is doing is invoking a function on it is looking for some
elements of the I D date picker.
So want to see the hashtag in general scripting Means is looking for on elements with idee
on.
Then the idea is looking for would be,
in this case,
the speaker.
So we're just entity it.
That and we're going to paste it underneath the reference to the J quarry called So once
again order marchers.
I can't stress that enough.
All right,
So if you don't follow the order than you're probably going to run into problems problems
and referencing problems on,
then I'm going to change this because we don't have any element of the I d date picker.
What will you want?
He is to get our element called the OBE.
All right,
So the enemy with I d d o b that is rule on the date picker.
So I'm just going toe change this I d to deal be so we'll look for the element Do you will
be once any pages loaded on it will tried to invoke the date picker class,
which is Ah,
sorry function,
which is a form shown being called from this scored which has dependence is on stuff in
this.
So that is why the order marchers once again on then if we look into the rest of the
example we see here that the input type is text,
not be it.
So we don't have to set it.
A deity can be text on the i.
D was there picker.
So I already can establish the father.
We need to change the i d.
What I'm going to do now is change the type from date toe text.
So here it is debt on.
I'm changing that to text on dial.
Save on one more thing that I didn't take over is the style sheet.
All right,
so this style sheet actually is what will make this look like this?
Right?
So we have to include that stash.
It's understand,
toe,
take that chord on.
That's a Cdn linked to the stash it somewhere.
And I'm going to go and pieced it inside off the header,
and I'll put it after the bootstrap stash.
So have this bootstrap star.
She didn't have the Jake or stash it,
and then we have over personal stash eat.
All right,
so when we re fresh and try,
we would notice that it is not working.
All right,
so when we want to debug when our like javascript on stuff is not working.
We can always right click in the empty space and click Inspect on then.
That kind of brings up this this debugging section where we can go to console and see what
errors are being printed on the area that is prevalent here is that it is saying that there
is something that it is trying to access from the geek or U F.
That is not available.
So remember,
housing order mutters,
we have to make sure we re friends The pier and file which is ghee clarified before we were
friends the you I file which we did.
But it is seeing that it cannot find certain things on one off the aero seriously and that
being picker is not a function on it is referencing this J quarter file that we have
already included.
So what is happening here is a is a matter off version.
So we have the latest geek wear,
which is three point something point something.
Whereas if we look back at the example,
we see that it is relying on J query version 1.12 point four.
So that is the root of your problem.
So in other words.
It is saying that you're trying to reference something that is not in the current version.
And that's fine.
So what we are going to do is just make sure that we reference this as the example would
have indicated.
So we're going to take this reference.
We're going to go back to our cord on.
I want to put that reference right here above the G query reference.
So this is our Jake.
Where you a reference.
I'm putting that one right above it.
All right,
So we have the latest version,
which is a query 3.3 point one on that is being referenced.
First on,
then this one is being referenced afterwards on just in time to load the Jake worry you I
and then all of these references occurring alot date picker or should l o date picker gun
control toe work.
So if I go back and I refresh,
you know what is that?
All off my console Arrows are gone.
I have no that The website is not complaining about anything.
No,
on then if I click in date off birth,
I get my control.
All right.
On that is what we really wanted.
So if I go back to Internet Explorer and refresh,
then my control,
my Collender looks the same way.
And that is what we want.
That level of consistency,
Andi,
accountability to our users are on.
The great thing about this is that it doesn't follow any of the keyboard input apart from
maybe numbers,
but they can't put text are very,
very random things in there.
So you can actually kind off prevent bad data from going into your application using these
controls.
All right,
so that's it for setting up our form.
Andi,
I hope you had fun.
I hope you learned something.
And if you run into any difficulty,
just let me know and I'll be sure toe reach out to you.